dr k
how to manage trust issues with porn
addiction so i'm in a distance
relationship
i found out that my boyfriend watches
porn before we started to be together he
used to watch it very often then he
promised to stop but i found out it was
a lie he was telling me that the problem
was solved that he doesn't do it anymore
yet after a few months then after
another year i found out he kept lying
to me i wanted to break up but he
managed to convince me to stay and he
promised again that he won't do it
anymore
it was very hard for me for a long time
and we've been together for a few years
now but the trust has never come back
truly and other issues have come along
i watched dr k's video about porn
addiction on the youtube channel it did
give me some more information about how
the addiction goes and so on dr k was
very understanding towards the problem
and brought some help to brave guys that
decided to come on stream
dr k could you bring some help for
girlfriends of addicts i believe there
is many girls and that that are with
gamers or even not gamers but just
regular guys that have the same problem
things that i struggle with except for
the trust are low self-esteem feeling
not enough feeling not desired feeling
not comfy and shy when being naked
obsessed with worries during intimate
moments
as if he thinks of porn scenes
feeling very bad during any sex scene
when we watch movies at some point i
understand that the problem isn't about
me that it's about him but still it
brings all of the above will it ever go
away what do i do to make it go away
the situation between us is is that we
don't talk about it anymore i used to
try but he was very ashamed many times
he was just nodding and agreeing to my
point of view but he wasn't really open
to talk to himself
it happened only when i started the talk
and also the conversations about it were
mostly bringing more pain and sadness i
wish to get better i wish to help for
myself i wished to be help for myself
and him and i just don't know what to do
this is a fantastic post and
unfortunately a very common problem
so let's try to recap okay
so
sometimes
people watch pornography
sometimes they watch a lot of
pornography
then they enter into relationships and
the pornography becomes kind of an issue
so it's a little bit unclear how we get
here but at some point people who will
be addicted to pornography will promise
their partner that they don't watch porn
and then eventually they'll
fail to keep that promise and then time
will go by they'll promise again fail to
keep the second one so on and so forth
right so like
this creates
a lot of problems in the relationship it
damages trust it makes it hard for
people to communicate this is a really
classic situation
when someone watches pornography in a
relationship it can make the partner
feel very insecure and insufficient
because there they are having their
sexual gratification
looking at a particular kind of beauty
aesthetic and my body doesn't match that
right so like
is my partner truly attracted to me or
am i just like the best that they can
get like do they really want to be with
someone like who's in the porno
or do they want to be with me are they
just settling with me like creates all
these issues which are really common so
how do we approach this
the first thing to understand
is that
people make promises of abstinence
out of fears and wants
not what they're capable of okay
so what do i
hold on a second
where's my father
okay sorry
so the first thing to understand is that
when people make promises of abstinence
in a relationship with porn addiction
they do so out of fear of the
consequences and like what they want
right
so i'm gonna be brave and i'm gonna
promise you something because i care
about you and i'm afraid of what's going
to happen if i don't promise it right
but when we think about dealing with an
addiction
keeping your promise is not like a good
way to fuel motivation it's an
insufficient motivation to deal with an
addiction just my general experience as
an addiction psychiatrist
so if i swear to you that i'm never
going to drink again that doesn't
actually lead to me not drinking so if
we think about
promises promises are emotionally driven
right they're like i'm in this moment
i'm so like oh my god i'm so bad i hurt
you i'm so mad i hurt you i don't want
to ever hurt you again i swear that's an
emotional emotionally driven decision
when you have an emotionally driven
decision the motivation behind it is
gonna wane as your emotions equilibrate
which is normal okay so the human brain
is designed to always return emotions to
baseline this is why despite having the
most awesome win in league of legends
six months ago you were still not happy
today the happiness just doesn't last
the sadness just doesn't last the
emotions just don't last it's the way
that our brain is desired uh designed
so as the
promise
so we have an emotion we make a promise
as the emotion wanes the promise is
prone to fall apart so the first thing
to understand is don't make promises
that are driven by like emotions in
relationships around porn addiction okay
the second thing is communication is key
so this is where what i would recommend
to girlfriends of partners who are
watching porn is that you ask them
questions about why they watch it you
need to understand what their
motivations behind the pornography is
because this in turn can help a lot of
your insecurities you may discover all
kinds of things like oh like i wouldn't
watch porn if we were able to be
sexually active but i just have sexual
needs and i'd much prefer you but we're
in a long-distance relationship so i
just like use it to get some degree of
sexual release it's sort of like more of
a physiologic thing or a mechanical
thing as opposed to like i don't find
you attractive or other things like that
right so there are all kinds of reasons
that people will watch porn
especially if you look at people who are
addicted to pornography a lot of the
reason that they watch porn has nothing
to do with sexuality or desire it has
everything to do with internal emotional
regulation coping with negative emotions
that's why people watch porn that's why
people get addicted to porn right if i'm
having a bad day and i watch porn and i
jerk off then what happens is i feel
better and like that pain from earlier
in the day like that emotional pain goes
away i get that hit of dopamine i get
that rush from ejaculation and then i
kind of feel better
so in terms of like the insecurities
that your partner may have like once
they understand why you watch porn
hopefully some of those insecurities
will be dealt with
and the third thing to do is to have a
conversation about the insecurities
right so i think communication here is
key non-judgmental communication is key
and for you to share with your partner
hey i feel insecure about like being
naked i feel embarrassed especially
because you watch porn because my body
does not look like the people's bodies
in porn
and so when you share that with your
your partner what they're gonna do is
they'll say oh they're gonna feel hurt
they're like oh my god i can't believe
i'm hurting you like no i love you so
much i swear i'll never watch porn
that's a mistake don't do that okay
don't change your behavior don't make
any behavioral changes at the beginning
just have a conversation where you're
listening because at that point the
partner isn't even listening they're
trying to fix it right they're not even
hearing you anymore they're trying to
make it go away
and if you're trying to make things go
away that's what's going to result in
the promise that's what's going to
result in making a promise that you
can't keep and is going to decay the
trust so it starts with a conversation
it starts with very practically can you
help me understand
what you like about watching porn can
you help me understand
why you watch porn what does it do for
you
are you concerned about your porn use
are you not are you okay with it if i
was okay with it would you be okay with
it
you know here are my concerns about your
pornography use
here are my insecurities in the
relationship
let's talk about those so i think that
if you're thinking about rebuilding
trust it has to do with like
people not reassuring each other it has
to do with people not jumping into
conclusions because the next time he
promises you don't know what to believe
because you don't know what's in his
head he's not you don't know what's in
his head you just know that what's
coming out of his mouth right and you
know some of his behaviors that's not
how you build trust building trust is
about understanding where the other
person is
building trust is about recognizing what
is in the other person's head and
accepting what is in the other person's
head even if we decide we want to change
it you have to start by accepting it
okay i understand that you're addicted
to pornography i understand that you
don't want to be addicted to pornography
i understand that you do find a sexual
relationship with me to be gratifying
and that this is going to take time and
that we should work on it i don't want
you to promise i'm just curious where do
you think you can start
do you think it's is it like a cutting
back kind of thing like what what's a
reasonable place to start don't go
straight for the the 100
like what's the first step we need to
take not where we want to go forget
about the goal where can we start
so it it involves having a conversation
about understanding why they you use
porn like what does it do for them
sharing your insecurities understanding
their insecurities not jumping to
solutions not jumping to conclusions and
having conversations and then the two of
y'all together coming up with like what
can we agree on you know what's the
foundation that both of us are going to
be operating from and that's how you
rebuild trust and it's also how you
overcome negative behaviors in
relationships